# Tutorial for creating the Parallax Scrolling effect for 2D game backgrounds in Unity

In games, it is common to use effects that increase the immersion provided in order to make the player's experience something more impactful and memorable. 2D games run away from reality a little by limiting themselves to movements, most of the time, without depth, dimensionally speaking. However, there are some techniques that can provide a greater sense of reality, even for 2D-style games. One of these techniques is the effect generated by Parallax Scrolling.
Parallax Scrolling is based on dividing the background image into different images, so that each image composes a different layer of the backdrop. Following the movement of the camera, each layer should move more slowly, proportional to its depth. In this way, components of the background that are at a greater distance will move more slowly, while those that are closer will move faster. Such an effect will generate an illusion of depth for the user. This is a very effective computer graphics technique for increasing immersiveness.
To this end, this tutorial will present the basics for configurations and coding in Unity to implement this effect.
Therefore, it will be necessary to use a background image with several layers. If you already have one, feel free to use it. In this article, the Foggy Mountains Parallax Background asset available in the Unity Asset Store at the link https://assetstore.unity.com/packages/2d/textures-materials/foggy-mountains-parallax-background-142516#description will be used. Thanks to the author SimpleArt for making it available for free. Here is a link to the author's page https://assetstore.unity.com/publishers/41827.

